{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2758
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww27480\viewh16220\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 Engaging with communities involves a variety of strategies and methods, tailored to the specific community you\'92re engaging with. Here are some key aspects to consider:\
\
	1.	Understanding the Community: Learn about the community\'92s culture, needs, and interests. This involves research and active listening.\
	2.	Building Relationships: Establish trust and rapport with community members. Genuine interactions and showing respect for their perspectives is crucial.\
	3.	Communication: Effective and clear communication is key. This includes being transparent about your intentions and being open to feedback.\
	4.	Participation and Inclusion: Encourage active participation from community members. Ensure that diverse voices are heard and included in the decision-making process.\
	5.	Collaboration: Work with community leaders and members to identify goals and develop plans. Collaborative approaches foster a sense of ownership and commitment.\
	6.	Adaptability: Be prepared to adapt your approach based on community feedback and changing circumstances.\
	7.	Sustainability: Aim for long-term engagement rather than short-term projects. This ensures lasting impact and continuous improvement.\
	8.	Evaluation and Feedback: Regularly assess the effectiveness of your engagement and be open to constructive criticism. This helps in refining your approach and meeting the community\'92s evolving needs.\
\
Remember, each community is unique, and a one-size-fits-all approach doesn\'92t work. Tailoring your strategy to the specific community you\'92re engaging with is essential for meaningful and effective community engagement.\
\
\
In this seminar, we learned about engaging with communities, which involves a variety of strategies and methods tailored to the specific community we are engaging with. Starting from understanding the community, building relationships, effective communications, collaboration, adaptability and evaluation of intervention.\
\
Soil and land\
The first two days of the course introduced us to Sants and El Clot, two neighborhoods here in Barcelona with strong communities inside them. After understanding the basics of communities and how to engage with them, we did a field exercise where we analyzed the different conflicts around the neighborhood (soil). As we are humans and each one has a different view, the conflicts found were different for each one. For this reason, after looking around for conflicts, we formed groups depending on the different interests we had to prepare an intervention. The second day we went to La Borda, a housing cooperative, a community that took action after the government's sloppiness and created a living, organized space. This visit and Adri\'e0\'92s explanation helped us understand the land conflict. I really enjoyed this seminar because it helped us see how a good community is organized and how \'93powerful\'94 they can get to be.\
\
\
Our intervention \
After getting to know the way to work with communities building relationships based on trust, we had to do an intervention with the affinity groups created earlier. I joined with Jorge and Sophie because our interests were rounding the organization of communities. Based on our interests, we decided to intervene on the way communities get organized. After a short talk with Adri\'e0, we saw different organization problems faced in communities like la Borda. This problems usually go around getting all voices heard. Usually in cooperative reunions more voices got heard more than others and this is usually not controlled. For that reason, we decided to create a tool that can help communities get organized but also that can be adapted to different ones as different communities get different needs. Our tool, based on AI was a bot instructed to organize communities. By having him pre-learn about communities work, it was easier to make him organize and adapt. The use of it will consist on answering different questions about the state and nature of your community and follow the bot\'92s recomendations on organization. \
\
How will the intervention be applied??\
Once the product is created, it\'92s time to create an action plan. As working with communities takes time (something we lack ), we made a conceptual plan of action. First off, after developing a meaningful relationship and gaining trust with a new community, in this case La Borda, we would show them the Community Organizer, our tool. After teaching the communities how to use it, we will let them use it for a considerable period of time, in this case, 5 weeks. During these 5 weeks, as the tool is created via ChatGPT, the users will be able to add and change the definition of it based on the different things they notice. Users will be able to change the tool, so once we get it back, we will see what worked in that particular community. After this, we will send the tool to a different kind of community to see different results and draw conclusions on what things can be used in certain types of communities and what things do. After repeating this process a lot of times and engaging with others, we will be able to create the ultimate community builder, available for every starting or already established community.\
\
Other communities\
\
\
Final reflections\
In the Design With Others course, I engaged in an in-depth study of the intersection between community dynamics and design principles. My fieldwork in the Sants and El Clot neighborhoods highlighted the often-overlooked challenges and disputes present in these communities, particularly the neglect of shared spaces. This aligned with my interest in the impact of community engagement on the upkeep and appreciation of common areas.\
\
The course also included visits to community-led projects, such as a local garden and a biomaterials' hub, which were particularly inspiring in their demonstration of communal cooperation on crucial issues like sustainable food practices and environmental conservation. These experiences offered valuable insights into the importance of community participation and the benefits of shared learning and skill development.\
\
A major learning point was the necessity of aligning design projects with the needs and aspirations of the community, as exemplified by our group project on integrating ecological elements like bees and plants into urban areas. The use of conflict mapping emerged as a key tool, aiding in identifying stakeholders and developing more targeted design approaches.\
\
Overall, the course taught me the importance of designing with communities, highlighting the need for immersive collaboration to ensure design projects are not only effective but deeply meaningful to the communities they serve. This principle is something I plan to carry forward into my master's program and future design endeavors.}