{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2759
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16720\viewh14480\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Intro \

\f1\b0 \ulnone As part of the program, we\'92ve been taking the seminar Digital Design for Prototyping. Based on the program FabAcademy, DDP teaches us how the fablab\'92s machines work and the different possibilities they offer to prototype. Also, the seminar takes modules from the fabricademy program to teach us the bases of biomaterials.\
\

\f0\b \ul Module 1\
\
\ulnone Laser cutting\

\f1\b0 This process uses thermal energy and heat, to separate or cut the parts of a material.\
A beam of concentrated light called laser is used to raise the temperature of the surface until it melts or vaporizes. After penetrating the surface of the material, the cutting process begins, guiding the beam across the surface until the desired shape or piece is obtained. This guiding will be possible thanks to the use of CAM (Computer Aided Manufacturing) Technology, that will control the machine by using g-code, defining the movement of the machine.\
\
Within this type of process there are three differentiated technologies or procedures that group the different industrial applications\
\
\uc0\u61623  Burning or Reactive Process: during the cutting process, oxygen is used at high pressures as a support gas, so the material reacts and consequently oxidizes during the process. This reaction produces energy that helps the laser to be more powerful and therefore the cut is deeper. It is generally used with iron or large thicknesses of sheet metal.\
\
\uc0\u61623  Fusion process: in this case nitrogen is used as a carrier gas by means of blowing so that it is more powerful.\
blowing so that it is easier to remove the material and less energy is used in cutting.\
in the cutting process. In general this process is used with materials that melt easily or small thicknesses.\
or small thicknesses.\
\uc0\u61623  Sublimation process: by means of a high intensity light beam, the material is directly evaporated or sublimated.\
evaporates or sublimates directly, so that it can be cut easily. This type of\
This type of process is used for non-metallic materials.\
\
Por medio de estos tres grandes procesos se obtienen la mayor\'eda de geometr\'edas dise\'f1adas en 2D para ser cortadas.\
Adem\'e1s, las ventajas de este tipo de proceso son m\'e1s que evidentes, la alta precisi\'f3n y versatilidad permiten la obtenci\'f3n de piezas de la forma mas\
eficiente posible con el uso del menor material, aun que eso depende de la optimizaci\'f3n a la hora de colocar las piezas en el tablero.\
\

\f0\b Bio-Materials\
\
Challenge\

\f1\b0 For this first challenge we had to combine the previous knowledge on the basis of bio-materials and the laser cutting machine to create something. Marius and myself, decided to create a parametric mold with the laser cutting machine and then pour the biomaterial created.\
To make the parametric mold we used Rhino+Grasshopper. For it\'92s shape, as we wanted to create a clay biomaterial from the biomaterial cookbook, we thought using a Moroni pattern will be ideal as dry soil usually get\'92s shaped following this mathematical operations. With a simple grasshopper script (that you can find here\uc0\u55357 \u56392 ) we managed to define the different seed, and size of the different cells and also with a pull point function we managed to make the inset shapes more dynamic by making the distance of the inset vary depending on the closeness to any line created in rhino. For the final result, we created different layers of the pattern, and created walls and a base for the mold. (You will fond the final file here\u55357 \u56392 )\
As I said before, our idea for the material was based on clay to follow a narrative for the exercise with the voronoi mold. Using the open source material cookbook, we based our bioplastic on the Agar Agar + Clay recipe. We decided to use this one because of the plasticizer. By using a plasticizer like agar agar will help the demolding because the main problem with laser cutting molds is the angles to demold. As we can only design a 2D shape that will be cutted, we can\'92t change the z unit shape so it will always be a straight cut. Also, some of the recipe had to be changed because we only had available wet clay and the recipe was with dry one, as the wet one already had water in it we had to change the proportions and experiment a bit with the material in order to get to the ideal material consistency.\
\
}