{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2758
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fnil\fcharset0 AppleColorEmoji;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww16200\viewh16220\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 The Bio Zero seminar looks to bridge the gap between institutional science and citizen scientists, promoting the democratization of biological research. It aligns with the DIY-Bio and Bio Hackers movements, encouraging participants to engage in hands-on biological design and experimentation. The course covered topics like identifying microorganisms, DNA design, and understanding core scientific concepts such as metabolism and synthetic biology. \
Science is cool!! 
\f1 \uc0\u55357 \u56620 
\f0 \
The seminar started with a brief and general introduction to science, from quantum mechanics, going through bio-chemistry and microbiology to end in synthetic biology. This was a way to have us all in context. Considering that most of the colleges in class didn\'92t have a scientific bachelor\'92s education I think it was a great introduction to science enough to understand the basics. \
Favorite scientists?
\f1 \uc0\u55358 \u56596 
\f0 \
During this first part of the class, Nuria made a great question that made think. Who are your favorite scientists? When she asked it I immediately thought about Tesla, Kepler, Snellius and Doppler, but two questions emmerged: Do I actually have a reason to admire them or I just simply said it because I remember them from my studies? and Why I didn\'92t thought of any woman?? Out of this two questions I make two reflections. First off, the lack of basic science culture in our society is deep and women are almost invisible in science general culture. Out of my answer, more questions can appear like Why none of the scientist mentioned are contemporary, or Why are all physicists? Our knowledge should be questioned and science should be an important part of education, specially ours, considering we\'92re \'93the future designers\'94 How are we going to design anything without knowing our true capabilities?\
Hands on 
\f1 \uc0\u55358 \u56785 \u8205 \u55357 \u56620 
\f0 \
After an introduction to microbiology, we started making science!!! On the first part of this practical exercise, we divided in groups and started cooking solutions to cultivate bacteria. My group decided to cook LactoBacillus, made with milk, lemon and agar. During the cooking, we were introduced to the important of sterilizing to evade contaminating the samples. After cooking the solution and carefully deposit it on Petri dishes, we introduced external agents to make the bacteria grow. After it we put all the dishes in the incubator to maintain a temperature of 30 degrees, ideal for bacteria to grow.\
Something always fails.\
The incubator didn\'92t work properly so it couldn\'92t maintain the 35 degrees we\'92re looking for. For that reason bacterias failed to grow on almost all the samples. We were lucky that the solution made from other group, the yeast medium, was good enough to grow something at ambient temperature. By observing differences in the homogeny sample, we could identify the different colonies inside each Petri dish. Even without getting the expected results, this was a great first practical exercise where we learned the procedure to follow and the precautions we should take. \
Microscopessss 
\f1 \uc0\u55357 \u56620 \u55357 \u56620 \u55357 \u56620 
\f0 \
The practical exercise of the second day was a microscopy class, after learning what are microscopes used for and how to manipulate them we put them to the test and tried them with different kinds of samples. \
Climate change 
\f1 \uc0\u55357 \u56613 
\f0 \
It's impossible to ignore the pervasive sense of climate fatigue that has begun to set in. After years of alarming headlines, dire predictions, and escalating natural disasters, a certain weariness has taken hold. This fatigue can manifest as a disengagement from the issue, a feeling of helplessness in the face of global-scale problems, or even skepticism about the efficacy of individual actions. \
Despite understanding the critical importance of the issue and the need for swift, collective action, the sheer scale of climate change can make it feel like an insurmountable challenge. As a result, the initial urgency to act can dwindle into a subdued resignation for some. It's crucial, however, to counteract this fatigue with renewed energy and hope, emphasizing the impact of local actions, the promise of innovative technologies, and the power of concerted global efforts to mitigate the worst effects of climate change. Recognizing the phenomenon of climate fatigue is the first step towards addressing it, ensuring that it doesn't erode our commitment to safeguarding our planet.\
Biohacking 
\f1 \uc0\u55358 \u56812 \u55357 \u56424 \u8205 \u55357 \u56507 
\f0 \
Finally, we were told about Biohacking and DIY-Bio. This are movements that democratize access to biology and biotechnology, allowing non-professionals to conduct scientific experiments and engage in innovation outside traditional laboratory settings. Biohacking encompasses self-experimentation and biological research with a hacker ethos of openness and decentralization, while DIY-Bio is the practice of amateur biological research. Both movements encourage public participation in science, aiming to enhance scientific literacy and innovation. However, they also prompt discussions about safety and ethics due to the risks involved in biological experimentation. \
The rise of biohacking and DIY-Bio is a testament to human curiosity and the desire to make science more inclusive. These movements allow for personal engagement with science, potentially leading to grassroots innovation. Yet, they also necessitate careful consideration of ethical and safety standards. In essence, biohacking and DIY-Bio bring science to the people, challenging us to balance the democratization of knowledge with responsible stewardship.\
Final thoughts\
The Bio Zero seminar stands as a beacon of the democratization of science, embodying the spirit of inclusivity and hands-on learning in the field of biology. It challenges traditional gatekeeping in scientific knowledge and practice, inviting a diverse group of participants to engage directly with the life sciences. Reflecting on the experience, it's clear that the seminar has not only equipped attendees with practical skills and scientific understanding but also inspired a sense of agency and possibility in the realm of biological research. The Bio Zero seminar represents a significant step towards a future where scientific exploration and innovation are accessible to all who are curious and motivated to learn.}