{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2759
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red134\green205\blue77;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c58755\c82661\c37297;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww14680\viewh14120\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 \

\f1\b A complex world\
\

\f0\b0 World is becoming more complex and interconnected. We are differently attuned because of technology\
\
Everything that anyone is doing in the world will be harder because of climate change\
\

\f1\b A divided world\
\
The AI boom\

\f0\b0 A 10 year wormhole into the future: 10 years progress in one go can be too much. A lot is possible now but it takes time to imagine and digest.\
\

\f1\b New interactions\

\f0\b0 Fuzziness, fluidity and friends: We are going to get a lot less empirical in the way we deal with technology\
Smart homes, connected devices and multimodal interaction: The modality of how we access content is changing\
\
\

\f1\b Governance and DAOs\
Blockchain\

\f0\b0 Decetralized ledger\

\f1\b NFTs\

\f0\b0 Non fugible token\
Making art not being art. Value depending on hype and speculation\

\f1\b Smart Contracts\

\f0\b0 DAOs Distributed autonomous organizations\
Elinor Ostrom\
\
\
\
\
In the ever-changing landscape of today's digital era, the way art is distributed has undergone significant shifts. We've moved away from the traditional methods of art consumption and physical distribution, embracing the widespread use of digital platforms. This shift not only allows artists to easily connect with a global audience but also mirrors the changing face of artistic expression in our contemporary world.\
While the global accessibility is undoubtedly beneficial for artists, it comes with its own set of challenges that require careful consideration. Tackling various obstacles, such as the complex task of tracking royalties, ensuring robust legal protection, and navigating transparency issues, becomes crucial. These challenges, though formidable, play a pivotal role in determining the path and longevity of art in this digital age.\
\
\
In the realm of blockchain, decentralization plays a pivotal role, ensuring that no single authority holds absolute control. Decentralized Autonomous Organizations (DAOs) exemplify this paradigm shift by championing group-led structures, doing away with traditional corporate hierarchies. The use of blockchain to record rules and transactions eliminates the need for centralized oversight. The synergy between NFTs and DAOs is particularly evident, especially in collector DAOs dedicated to nurturing NFT communities.\
DAOs function based on smart contract rules, ensuring transparency through unalterable contracts. Token ownership, tied to voting and governance rights, makes NFTs essential for DAO functionality, empowering members to influence organizational changes.\
\
The success of NFT projects hinges on community support, with DAOs acting as creator collectives playing a pivotal role. Smart Contracts are vital for the automated management of DAOs, operating seamlessly akin to a vending machine.\
\
\cf2 Navigating this innovative landscape poses challenges in how legal norms will regulate DAOs and Smart Contracts amid the evolving blockchain technology. The future of DAOs and Smart Contracts depends on countries embracing transparency or imposing restrictions. Personally, I find their potential exciting, but their impact relies on the widespread acceptance of the legal and regulatory framework in the creative and technological landscape.\cf0 \
\
NFTs have become increasingly important in the creative sectors. These one-of-a-kind digital assets are unique and cannot be replaced, traded using blockchain technology, offering buyers exclusive access to content. One significant advantage of NFTs is their ability to bring together creators and consumers in a decentralized cultural and artistic community.\
\
Enter the DAFNE+ project, supported by the European Union, with the goal of establishing innovative distributed autonomous organizations and communities centered around NFTs and digital tokens, all governed in a decentralized manner.\
\
This initiative aims to fuel innovation and boost competitiveness within cultural and creative industries. It plans to achieve this by utilizing technology to create new revenue models and business strategies, allowing these industries to extend their influence and explore fresh distribution channels without being limited by intermediaries.\
\
\
\
\
\
\
\
As part of the event Fair Futures, where we collaborated with SODA (School Of Design and Arts) to know more about the Dafne+ project. We were asked to deliver a proposal of a community DAO for the platform. The team I was part of was pretty concerned about the ecological problems going on around the world right now. For this reason, we decided to coceptualice a DAO around it. \
Our main focus was the loss of biodiversity. Thanks to the different activities done in the miro board, we worked on how to make and then upgrade the different rules that every member of the community should follow. At the end, we decided to make use of the honorable harvest manifesto as rules. With this set of rules, we were understanding the plants before taking them from the soil. To make this rules tangible, we decided to make the honorable harvest kit, which eat member of the DAO will have. This kit will como with a set of instructions and tools that will represent each rule of the manifesto. Our idea with the kit was to conceptualice and trigger questions in the users about the system we currently live in, where we take and take from nature and produce with an anthropocentric view. By making people realice we can make them ask to governments and corporations a more fair system for all the residents in earth. This way we can trigger policies and laws that defend plant s and other living things.\
\
\
\
}