{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2759
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 ArialMT;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;\f2\fnil\fcharset0 Calibri;
}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;\red26\green26\blue26;\red26\green26\blue26;\red38\green38\blue38;
}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;\cssrgb\c13333\c13333\c13333;\cssrgb\c13348\c13348\c13331;\cspthree\c20000\c20000\c20000;
}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww23740\viewh14700\viewkind0
\deftab720
\pard\tx940\tx1440\pardeftab720\li1440\fi-1440\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs26 \cf2 \expnd0\expndtw0\kerning0
Submit your individual reflection on the Miro board (this includes a screenshot of your Reflection Tree).\
\
\
Respond to the following questions:\
\
\
\
\ul What are the key takeaways from the activity?\
\ulnone My main takeaway of the talk was learning more about the distributed design network, how it works, who is involved and all the possibilities of collaboration with it available. I find it a super interesting way to \'93fight\'94 the current system we live on. By taking this global connection infrastructure created and only use it to transfer diverse knowledge and then manage the production locally, it\'92s possible to reduce the waste of resources and pollution in transportation drastically. Also, the distributed design network highly favors circular economies in de different participant\'92s countries. By consuming and producing locally, small and local producers and business have easier ways to work on different projects. Capitalism with global consumption and production is not sustainable, for that reasonable I found pretty interesting the network and the different projects done in it.\
\
\ul Could you provide an open reflection on the tool Reflection-Tree?
\fs20 \

\fs26 \cf3 \ulnone I feel like analyze the impact of a project you\'92ve been part of if really interesting as a reflection exercise. It helps you realize what you\'92ve done and what you can do in the future to make it better. I also enjoyed how the tool had different categories and how most of the different sub-categories are important things to take into account. In my opinion, besides de fact that the tool is very complete I would have liked to add a few more categories where the reuse and redistribution of the different components would have been considered and also one that measures the emotional side of the project, that I think could be interesting to see the impact on the users of it and also affect to it\'92s longevity. The new categories would look like this:\
\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf4 \kerning1\expnd0\expndtw0 1_EMOTIONAL ASPECTS\
1.1 Designing to create a Person-Object emotional bond.\
2.1-Designing for re-use or re-distribution:\
2.1.1- Is it an evolving product? If yes, how does it evolve?\
2.1.2- Has the product been designed so that once its first life cycle has been exhausted\
2.1.2- Has the product been designed to facilitate its entry into a new cycle?\
2.1.3- Has the product been designed for multiple uses? Is the product versatile?
\fs22 \
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf4 \
\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f1 \cf4 1.2-Dissenyar per al re-manufacturaci\'f3\
1.2.1- Quina de les tres propostes est\'e0 m\'e9s pensada per a la seua devoluci\'f3 al fabricant, ja que est\'e0 pensada\
per a desmuntar-la per peces individuals, en peces independents o per tipus de materials per a tornar a re\
manufacturar?\
\
\pard\tx560\tx1120\tx1680\tx2240\tx2800\tx3360\tx3920\tx4480\tx5040\tx5600\tx6160\tx6720\pardeftab720\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f2 \cf4 \
}