{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2759
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica-Bold;\f1\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww11520\viewh8400\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\b\fs24 \cf0 \ul \ulc0 Jorge Mu\'f1oz Zan
\f1\b0 \'f3
\f0\b n self-evaluation:\
\ulnone \
1. Relevance of the interventions in relation to the weak signals and the state of the art\

\f1\b0 My three main interventions during this first term (Biomaterialing with AI, Pulse, and Growing algorithms) are heavily focused on the collaboration between interspecies. Besides this, some other weak signals can be related to some of them such as: Rural futures, Carbon neutral lifestyle, Human-Machine collaboration\'85\
\

\f0\b 2. Framing the interventions and its development through the evolution of the Design Space\

\f1\b0 My Design Space has been changing a lot during this first term as it was first focused on the refugee tech and the re-imagination of current jobs with the use of fables and maker education. After doing some interventions and work around this, I realized I was not interested in this subjects anymore. Once the main interest changed to interspecies collaboration, interventions did accordingly. For this reason, I believe that during this first term interventions and different works have been connected pretty well to each other.\
\

\f0\b 3. Involvement of the community through the design interventions\

\f1\b0 During this first term, as most of the interventions had the goal of experimenting with new technologies or concepts, the communities involvement turned around the contacting with different experts to know more about the subjects of the interventions. Also, some of the projects were made open source, creating a documentation and uploading it to forums. This kind of connection opens up the projects for everyone experts or not. By having proper documentation people can understand our steps followed and then help us if they know more or just follow them themselves to arrive to the same point and take their own conclusions. The fact that they are open source projects helps continuity in the different projects because we can move to another kind of project but the community can still interact with us.\
\

\f0\b  Evaluation\

\f1\b0 After exposing the following arguments on my work during Design Studio 01, I believe that a good grade to my work would be something around 90%\
}