{\rtf1\ansi\ansicpg1252\cocoartf2757
\cocoatextscaling0\cocoaplatform0{\fonttbl\f0\fswiss\fcharset0 Helvetica;}
{\colortbl;\red255\green255\blue255;}
{\*\expandedcolortbl;;}
\paperw11900\paperh16840\margl1440\margr1440\vieww23100\viewh16060\viewkind0
\pard\tx720\tx1440\tx2160\tx2880\tx3600\tx4320\tx5040\tx5760\tx6480\tx7200\tx7920\tx8640\pardirnatural\partightenfactor0

\f0\fs24 \cf0 This seminar had the goal of introducing us to the use of first-person perspective for research purposes. So we can start designing as part of the collective instead of being outsiders.\
\
The week started by understanding exactly what the first-person perspective is, which involves the researcher/designer directly engaging in the study or sharing their personal experiences and feelings. This approach allows for a more subjective and intimate understanding of the topic, providing insight into individual thoughts, emotions, and behaviors. It can enhance empathy, promote participant engagement, and provide a deeper understanding of the social phenomena. However, researchers must be aware of the bias and subjectivity that can arise from using this approach and carefully consider the impact of it on the research outcomes.\
To start putting it into practice, we started by developing a companion. Using materials from the fab lab and rapid prototyping, each of us created a machine that would keep us company for a day. I created Handy, a robotic arm that will show its mood every day and will look for its user (me) to make contact with it. The idea is that the user will \'93please\'94 the machine\'92s needs and in exchange the user will receive different types of contact every day, shaking hands, receiving a middle finger, a finger heart\'85 I liked this idea because it changed the roles. Usually, the only function of the machines is to please us in any way we want. This machine will make the user take care of it and apply the first-person perspective of the machine (I\'92m not sure if this makes sense \uc0\u55357 \u56837 ). After building it, we brought the machines home, and started using them for a day. As the machines were conceptual, we needed to imagine them functioning. For that reason, I asked one of my roommates to put an alarm in my phone at a random hour and define a mood without telling me, that way, it would feel real. The machine offered me a high five at 14:27 and made me stop eating and go to my room fast just to interact with it. I have to say that it was interesting to test this, even though I don\'92t know if I did the exercise correctly, because it helped me start with the use of first-person perspective. \
\
Next up, once the introduction to the first-person perspective was done, we were asked to apply the first-person perspective to our own interests. In this exercise, the goal was to create a video where we engaged in the study field we were interested in. In my case, even though my design space is constantly changing, I decided to apply it to underused urban spaces. By mixing it with the research that some of our classmates were doing on pollution in the metro, I decided to experiment with how it would feel to work inside the metro for a couple of hours and see how I felt after and what differences I noticed comparing it to my room. I think it was an interesting way to apply the first-person perspective in order to know if there is actually a real problem in the metro.\
\
The benefits of being present include understanding another point of view. By being more emphatic, I could think of ways to solve problems that I probably would not have thought of any other way.\'a0\
By using myself as an instrument, I was able to see new things that I hadn\'92t even thought about, like how impersonal the metro space is, where people just wait for their metro to come and leave, most of the time without actually saying anything to each other, and also the difference in the air. I was inside stations and metros for a couple of hours, and when I got out, I really felt the need for fresh air. With this said, the pollution subject should be investigated in a deeper way, scientifically speaking. Just two hours inside doesn\'92t actually support any theory. In the future, if I want to continue this way of researching, I should do this experiment for more time and also extract scientific data that supports my hypothesis.\'a0\
\
Using 1PP helped me learn a new way of approaching things. As an industrial design engineer, I\'92ve always done extended research on my projects, but without putting yourself in the position of your audience, even though you have a ton of data on the subject, you can realize that maybe it wasn\'92t that good of an idea. So from now on, I will definitely try to apply this as a previous phase to my future projects.\
Also, watching my classmate's videos helped me see the number of different possibilities of applying 1PP and the different subjects where you can do research using it. As I still don\'92t have a clear design space (Because it\'92s changing almost every day), I still cannot say confidently who I have common interests with. But from what I saw in the class, I really think that both Nicol\'f2, who was doing biomaterials research, and Marius, who was doing AI research, could be great companions because both of those subjects can be applied to my research. With that said, before thinking about collaborating with anyone, I still need to get things straight in my head and figure out my design space.\
\
\
\
After developing our own design spaces and learning about the concept of 1PP it was time to put it into practice. We had 2 weeks to form a group and make a little intervention in the city of Barcelona.\
\
In order to create groups with similar interests, we made an activity where we displayed all our interests on a big board in class. That way, everyone was able to see other people's interests. In my case, I was mostly interested in refugee technology and maker education. Out of all my classmates interests, Flora\'92s, Manuja\'92s and Vania\'92s were the ones that I felt were closest to me, so we decided to join the group.\'a0\
After having a clear idea of the participants in each group, we were told to display the ideas in a cleaner way. In order to do that, we created a Miro board where everyone added their interests. This step helped us visually organize all the information we had, so it would be easier to think of an intervention.\'a0\
\
Taking a look into our collective design space, we thought that creating first-need products from scratch and teaching people how to do them via tutorials was a great idea, So we started thinking about it. The general idea was to create a big board where we displayed different \'93recipes\'94 of all the ingredients needed to create basic healthcare stuff. That board would have been taken to a crowded place, and via QR displayed on the board, people would have been able to do them at home and share them.\'a0\
All of us were really happy with the idea at the beginning, but then, after some individual and group design studio reviews, we realized that we hadn\'92t taken into consideration the first-person perspective at all. So we knew the project had to change because we didn\'92t know if people actually needed this healthcare stuff that we were making because we didn\'92t put ourselves in other people's shoes. After realizing this, we tried to think about how we could apply 1PP in Barcelona as outsiders to the city. After reading and talking about it, we realized that all the other components of the group have experienced what it\'92s like to not have a DNI or a NIE and all the things that you can\'92t do without them. As the design intervention was not supposed to be super elaborate, considering we had 2 weeks to do it, we decided to intervene just transports. To decide which ones, we did some research on which ones are public and which ones are more limited, depending on whether you have a NIE or not. Out of all the transportation options in the city, we decided to just consider the public bicycle system and the metro/bus. \
There are a lot of questions surrounding this subject, and we still don\'92t have answers to a lot of them. For that reason, we decided that the objective of our intervention should not be to solve anything, but to spread awareness and receive inputs that we can analyze and then deliver on what we want to do with them. To spread awareness, our idea was to print some posters where we let everyone know about this situation. Also, we wanted to attach a QR code that directed people to a form where we could get a lot of data. After rethinking the idea, we decided that the form was not a good idea after all. Firstly, people do not want to fill out forms, and second of all, the sample of data we could get wouldn\'92t have been correct. For that reason, we opted for more physical interaction with people. We decided to add some cutted papers to the bottom of the posters for the users to take. The thing about this paper is that we\'92re not fully cutted. That way, people would not be able to take them easily and would \'93break\'94 the poster. This will be a metaphor for the slogan in the poster, \'93To get a paper sometimes is harder than you think,\'94 referring to the NIE and the difficulties people face in getting it.\'a0\
While we were filming the video for the intervention and placing posters in different places, we realized that not many people cared enough to read the posters, so we had to stop some people and tell them what we were doing. At the end, we managed to get some interactions and our \'93broken\'94 posters. Personally, I enjoyed our intervention and how we managed to apply the first-person perspective to it, but I feel that it has gone pretty far away from my interests. That\'92s the reason why I\'92m not passionate about it and why, in the future, I will try to look for other kinds of interventions. \
\
\
\
\
\
\
}